those are the variations of boning
knives this is another example of one
you can see the differential there sort of more of
a rounded blade to it a little bit of a tip there
this one is great if you've actually got to use
the dagger cut with butchery and you just need to
apply an awful lot of pressure to something if
you're coming right up against the bone before
you're doing muscle removal and this tip is very
good also if you're removing skin say from a pork
leg you want to get underneath and this helps
you sort of arc round and cut through that too
other knives you're also going to use in butchery
these ones are called scimitars so you get a large
one like this this one application will be if
you're cutting something like a striploin steak
maybe you're also doing a rib eye
steak something that you can get a nice
long roll onto that piece of meat so it's a very
very long slice that's called a simmeter and
this is of just a smaller variation of that as
well it just allows you to sort of cut through
or pull back if you're doing dice anything like
that this also is very good if you need to remove
skin i'll get underneath that as well so those
two there those are what we refer to as scimitar
this is a japanese boning knife referred to as
a honesuki a little bit of difference between a
european style knife and a japanese knife is
the actual bevel so if I look at this boning
knife here the bevel is identical all the way
through the blade the japanese burning knife
is slightly different where we have eighty
percent of the blade and then twenty percent
of the blade so this sharpens very differently
very very stiff very very firm knife and again
that is a japanese style boning knife, something
else that you might see as well in a butcher shop
is a cleaver so this can be used as well maybe
you need to take the chine bone off a pork rack
you can hold that and you can come down the bone
and that is designed it's very sharp as well
and it's very heavy it's designed to cut
through bone so if you don't have a bandsaw
that's the application that you're going to
use again that is referred to as a cleaver
these are referred to as meat mallets so it's
got a smaller one here that is completely metal
and a wooden handled one here this one's a little
heavier actually depending on the application if
you were making say a schnitzel and you had to
pound down the meat obviously to make it thin
and that will also tenderize the meat somewhat as
well so there's two ends on this one we refer to
these as dimple ends there's a very big one there
that's what you would use actually tenderize down
and then this one would use to flatten
it slightly and then this side too
you can tap down and that will flatten the meat
again same process for this one not quite as big
but again you've got the dimple end that you would
begin to use first tapping the meat out and then
this is the flat side you would just bang through
and that would flatten the meat also so those are
the two types of meat mallets that you will see
traditionally in the industry and also at college